Supplemental data public docs (#477)
codatio/codat-docs: docs/using-the-api/supplemental-data.md

---
title: "Supplemental data"
description: "Retrieve and update additional fields from an integration using supplemental data"
---

## What is supplemental data?

> We have enhanced some of our data types with a `supplementalData` property. It gives you the ability to fetch, update, or create additional fields from an integration's endpoint within our existing standard data types.

Reviewer: I think this could be clearer? A quick stab at it...
```suggestion
Supplemental data is data that supplements Codat's standard data model. By using supplemental data, you can fetch, create, or update fields from/in an integration that Codat doesn't support out of the box.

```

> For example, to pull our `suppliers` data type from Xero, we use Xero's [Contacts](https://developer.xero.com/documentation/api/accounting/contacts) endpoint. While we already include many of the properties of that endpoint in our standard data model, some properties, like supplier bank account details (`BankAccountDetails`), are not included. 

Reviewer: This is good

By configuring supplemental data for this property, you will be able to fetch `BankAccountDetails` every time you pull our standard `suppliers` data from Xero.

## Where is supplemental data available?

> We are rapidly expanding coverage across integrations and datatypes according to client demand. We currently cover the following integrations and data types:

Reviewer: A sentence like this feels like it needs to point to customer to a way they can have their say on this roadmap?

 
<iframe
  src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vToBP6lQMT_MrB8L5e_61w2LrmpoJPAVhxCVqCuoSpWgb6ga2hUXZHlLSdCr9jY_He1b-uYaDAnH6DV/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false"
  frameborder="0"
  style={{ top: 0, left: 0, width: "100%", height: "400px" }}
></iframe>

## How do I configure supplemental data?

> In order to use this property, you need to specify what supplemental data should be passed in the response for each integration and data type pair you require. To do so, use the [endpoint name]/endpoint link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to specify what supplemental data should be passed in the response for each integration and data type pair you require. To do so, use the [endpoint name]/endpoint link.

```

{
    "supplementalDataConfig": {
        "{ClientObjectName}": {
            "dataSource": "/{PlatformEndpoint}",
            "pullData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
            "pushData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
        }
    }
}
```

You can also retrieve your existing supplemental data configuration by using the [endpoint name]/endpoint link endpoint:
```http
GET /integrations​/{platformKey}/datatypes/{datatype}/supplementalDataConfig
```

## Codat to platform endpoint mapping

**EVERYTHING IN THIS SECTION SHOULD GO TO THE OAS**

Review the table below for platform endpoints we use in our data types, which are available for you to pull or send supplemental data. 

| Data type      | Xero endpoints                                                    | QuickBooks Online endpoints | Netsuite endpoints |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------|

> | `billPayments` | Payments, Overpayments,   PrePayments, BatchPayments, CreditNotes |                             |                    |

Reviewer: Why the different styles here?

Author: different styles of what? do you mean the casing? the data type is Codat's naming, and the endpoint names are actual Xero and QBO naming

></iframe>

## How do I configure supplemental data?

You'll need to specify what supplemental data should be passed in the response for each integration and data type pair you require. To do so, use the [endpoint name]/endpoint link.

```http
/integrations/{platformKey}/datatypes/{datatype}/supplementalDataConfig
```

Within the request body, `PlatformEndpoint` and `PlatformPropertyName` parameter values must match the integration's requirements exactly, including casing. Ensure you are familiar with the source data structure as Codat does not validate the supplemental data values against the integration provider.

```json title="Supplemental data configuration request body"
{
    "supplementalDataConfig": {
        "{ClientObjectName}": {
            "dataSource": "/{PlatformEndpoint}",
            "pullData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
            "pushData": {
                "{ClientDefinedName}":"{PlatformPropertyName}",
                "{ClientDefinedName2}": "{PlatformPropertyName2}"
            },
        }
    }
}
```

> You can use dot notation to retrieve nested properties from within the supplemental data object. For example, maintain the followng configuration to retrieve the the `Name` value from Xero's `BrandingTheme` object with two properties, `BrandingThemeID` and `Name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use dot notation to retrieve nested properties from within the supplemental data object. For example, maintain the following configuration to retrieve the the `Name` value from Xero's `BrandingTheme` object with two properties, `BrandingThemeID` and `Name`.

```
